## Ad-hoc routing

Edit: `Taku`

---

### Goal
* Communication between wireless node without fixed infrastructure.
* No external setup (self-configuring)
* Often need multiple hops to reach dst

### Structure

* No fixed infrastructure, no prior planning and layout, but rely on self-communication between members, anytime, anywhere organization
* Can send data by Unicast or Multicast

### Routing

* Route path is important(尋找路由路徑的過程，稱為路由探索 (Route discovery)。
* In the process of route exploration, nodes use Broadcast Route Request (RREQ) to obtain the routing path.
    
* When a node intends to send a packet, but the routing table does not contain information about the destination node, the node initiates a route discovery procedure to find the routing path to the destination node.
  * The source node sends a Route Request (RREQ) packet to start the route discovery procedure. When a relay node receives the RREQ packet, it first judges whether the RREQ packet is broadcasted. If so, it discards the RREQ packet Packet; if not, the information inside this RREQ packet is updated and the RREQ packet continues to be broadcast.
  * When the RREQ packet is sent to the destination node or the routing buffer of a certain relay node contains the information of the destination node, the node containing the information will reply a Route Reply (RREP) packet back to the startup route Explore the source node of the program.
  * RREP uses source routing policy to transmit RREP packets that contain the information of each relay node in the loopback path. The information is recorded in the header of the packet, and the RREP packet is sent back to the source node according to the information. When the source After the node receives the RREP packet, it starts to send the data packet.
  * When the connection fails (sending the packet to the next relay node fails), a Route Error (RERR) packet is generated, sent back to the source node, and the node along the route clears the routing information. When the source After the node receives RERR, it will restart the route discovery program to find a new path to replace the original path.


* Nodes spread widely and broadcast messages require some relay node replay (Rebroadcast), in order to make all nodes aware, but because of the node location may change, resulting in multiple replay, and then broadcast storm.
* Power issue: related to the complexity of routing path
* Pro-active routing protocol
  * The active routing method first establishes routing information for any two nodes in the network. Therefore, when a new connection is established (the source node sends the packet to the destination node), routing information can be obtained in time to send the packet to the destination. Taking into account the wireless free network bandwidth is limited and high mobility, the original routing method used in the Internet to do some changes to adapt. At present, active routing protocols designed specifically for wireless networks are broadly divided into two types of routing methods: Distance vector and Link state.
  * Distance vector method is the adjacent nodes exchange each other's distance vector, after continuous exchange, this vector will record their own distance to all nodes in the network, the information is spread to the entire network, which can be calculated The best route to yourself for all the nodes in the entire network.
  * The node chooses a path with the lowest total cost (the sum of all the costs that go through the path), which is used to send the data from the source node to the destination node